
# Guessing the Future of AI

> Challenge: *"Make 20 predictions about the future high-impact achievements/milestones of AI on humanity for the next 10 years."*


*Jan 19th, 2026*

#### 2027 

- Both images and videos generated by the best AI are practically impossible to tell apart from real ones (without the use of specialized tools).
- Websites have two versions of the same web page, one that is human-readable, and a text-based one for LLMs.
- AI is proven to be PHD-level in most of the fields, and it's intellect is compared to the top individuals in their respective fields.

#### 2028

- Content-creation as we knew it in 2022 has been completely disrupted, as video ideas that used to be too impractical to make are now at the tips of our fingers.
- Despite the  still ongoing grudge of artist on AI, generated art is generally considered of higher quality than human art by a majority of consumers.
- Collapse of individual expertise: Being “an expert” without AI becomes irrational, like doing math without calculators.
- AI as a companion is now a mostly normalized concept, as they are often use as supportive and capable voice-assistants.
- By now, AI has cracked a major math problem, that experts thought it wase decades away.
- AI-race between China and the US.

#### 2029

- We re-evaluated what intelligence really means, as a human-like LLM has been created with less than 100M parameters.
- The big studios realized that using AI is cheaper than using CG, and yields better results. Therefore, most pixels in the movies are now generated rather than rendered.
- AI appears in unexpected places, like **law**. for instance, courts begin relying on AI-generated legal reasoning (not just retrieval), and criminal cases are reviewed by AI for deduction purposes.
- The AI-girlfriend boom has by now already significantly impacted the birth-rate of first-world countries.
- Humanity is worried about the future of AI, as aligning agentic behavior has proven to be a challenge.

#### 2030 

- We have a (practically) fully AI-generated best-selling book. It may not be disclosed as such, as the dispute of ownership of generated text has still not been fully solved.
- The internate is mostly bots and generated content. Human-made content becomes a _genre_, not the default. 
- By now, “Junior roles” have mostly vanished; the usual "career ladders" has broken.
- Entertainment (like video, movies, games, etc.) is now custom-made content. One can ask the game to add any character, or change any scene as they are pleased, an the AI will make it happen on-the-fly.

#### 2031

- AI is as integrated in our daily lives as ever, now that AR device gained widespread adoption. Language-barrier is a thing of the past.
- We are looking back at the early models from 2023 and point at how inevitable it was to automate most of human intellectual tasks.  
- We owe the AI the existence of entire new fields in math and science.

#### 2032

- Most highly skilled, research-related jobs heavily rely on AI automation, as formalism is a frivolous barrier for such tools, and LLMs has been immensely optimized on science rather than other (harder to make benchmarks for) fields.  

#### 2033

- Peer review becomes AI-first

#### 2034

- By now, human labour is much more centered around supervision, rather than creativity or decision.

#### 2035

- The first experimentally verified scientific result whose derivation no human can fully reproduce or explain, even with assistance. Humans can validate it empirically, but not compress it into human-sized theory.

#### 2036

- By about this time we started seeing exponential adoption of humanoid robots. Although not quite as capable as further down the road, many companies, hospitals, and impaired individuals will see their value.

#### 2037

- Most jobs from 2022 have now disappeared. The most future-proof jobs have proved to be those that *explicitly require humans*, rather than those tied to any particular skill, be it creative or intellectual. No other barrier proved to be a challenge for AI at this point.

#### 2038

- By now, global stock markets experienced a major flash crash caused by adversarial manipulation of foundation model–driven trading agents.
- In a desperate manoeuvre to counter extreme job scarcity, the US government starts experimenting with Universal Basic Income (UBI).


#### Disclaimer 

*Exact dates are not the main point. This thought experiment is more about trying to guess the chain of events, and the extent fo the impact of AI.*
